The President: Hi, everybody.
This week, there was a big
birthday you might have missed.
Medicare and Medicaid
turned 50 years old.
And that's something
worth celebrating.
If one of the best measures
of a country is how it treats
its more vulnerable citizens
- seniors, the poor,
the sick - then America
has a lot to be proud of.
Think about it.
Before Social Security, too
many seniors lived in poverty.
Before Medicare, only half had
some form of health insurance.
Before Medicaid, parents
often had no help covering
the cost of care for a
child with a disability.
But as Americans, we
declared that our citizens
deserve a basic measure
of security and dignity.
And today, the poverty
rate for seniors is less
than half of what it
was fifty years ago.
Every American over 65
has access to affordable
health care.
And today, we're finally
finishing the job -
since I signed the
Affordable Care Act
into law, the uninsured
rate for all Americans has
fallen by about one-third.
These promises we made as a
nation have saved millions
of our own people from
poverty and hardship,
allowing us new freedom,
new independence,
and the chance to live
longer, better lives.
That's something
to be proud of.
It's heroic.
These endeavors - these American
endeavors - they didn't
just make us a
better country.
They reaffirmed that
we are a great country.
And a great country keeps
the promises it makes.
Today, we're often told
that Medicare and Medicaid
are in crisis.
But that's usually a political
excuse to cut their funding,
privatize them, or phase them
out entirely - all of which
would undermine their
core guarantee.
The truth is, these
programs aren't in crisis.
Nor have they kept us
from cutting our deficits
by two-thirds since
I took office.
What is true is that
every month, another 250,000
Americans turn 65
years old, and become
eligible for Medicare.
And we all deserve a
health care system
that delivers efficient,
high-quality care.
So to keep these
programs strong,
we'll have to make
smart changes over time,
just like we always have.
Today, we're actually
proving that's possible.
The Affordable Care Act
has already helped secure
Medicare's funding
for another 13 years.
The Affordable Care Act has
saved more than nine million
folks on Medicare 15
billion dollars on their
prescription drugs
It has expanded Medicaid to
help cover 12.8 million more
Americans, and to help more
seniors live independently.
And we're moving our health
care system toward models
that reward the quality
of the care you receive,
not the quantity of
care you receive.
That means healthier
Americans and a healthier
federal budget.
Today, these programs are
so fundamental to our way
of life that it's easy to
forget how hard people
fought against them
at the time.
When FDR created
Social Security,
critics called
it socialism.
When JFK and LBJ worked
to create Medicare,
the cynics said it would
take away our freedom.
But ultimately, we came
to see these programs for
what they truly are - a
promise that if we work hard,
and play by the rules,
we'll be rewarded with
a basic measure of
dignity, security,
and the freedom to live
our lives as we want.
It's a promise that previous
generations made to us,
and a promise that our
generation has to keep.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.